.\"        Title: dates
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "DATES" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBdates\fR - Perform date arithmetic and/or format dates
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBdates\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The dates(1) command is a cross-platform tool for performing data arithmetic and/or formatting dates.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB--verbose\fR
.RS 4
Echo the underlying *nix \fIdate(1)\fR commands that will be executed to \fIstderr\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fB--today\fR
.RS 4
Use today's date as the starting date.
.RE
.PP
\fB--date\fR=\fIdate\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIdate\fR as the starting date. Assumes RFC-3999 format unless you specify \fB--informat\bR.
.RE
.PP
\fB--informat\fR=\fIfmt\fR
.RS 4
The format of the input date. It's an error to also specify \fB--today\fR. 
Defaults to RFC-3999 format. Specifying \fB--informat=rfc-3999\fR is equivalent. 
See the \fBWARNING\fR below about input formats on Linux. Omit the "+" at the 
beginning of the string, which the \fIdate(1)\fR command would require.
.sp
WARNING: The Linux \fIdate(1)\fR command often fails to return valid results 
when doing arithmetic on an input date that is not RFC-3999 format! There are 
exceptions, such as using the %Y-%m-%d format when calculating day deltas. 
We recommend using RFC-3999 for this reason.
.RE
.PP
\fB--format\fR=\fIfmt\fR
.RS 4
Format the output dates using \fIfmt\fR. Specify \fB--format\fR=\fIrfc-3999\fR for RFC-3999 output.
.RE
.PP
\fB--sep\fR=\fIseparator\fR
.RS 4
Separate output dates by \fIseparator\fR (default: \fI" "\fR). Use \fI\\n\fR for one per line.
.RE
.PP
\fIM:N\fR
.RS 4
Calculate one or more "units" (default unit: \fI1\fR day), based on this interpretation of \fIM:N\fR:
.RE
.PP
\fIM:N\fR
.RS 4
Return a range of dates from \fIM\fR days to \fIN\fR days \fBfrom\fR the starting date. 
Prefix \fIM\fR or \fIM\fR with a \fI-\fR to use days \fBago\fR. 
.RE
.PP
\fI :N\fR
.RS 4
Start with the starting date, inclusive, i.e., \fIM=0\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fIM: \fR
.RS 4
End with the starting date, inclusive, i.e., fBN=0\fR. Because the fBM\fR and fBN\fR 
are inclusive, the number of dates returned is abs(\fIN\fR-\fIM\fR)+1. Also, if 
the \fIN\fR < \fIM\fR, the results "count down".
.RE
.PP
\fIunits\fR
.RS 4
How to interpret the the \fIM:N\fR range. An optional number (default: \fI1\fR), 
followed by one of the characters in \fIymdHMS\fR. (\fIw\fR is also allowed for Mac OS X)
.sp
If \fIM:N units\fR are omitted, the script just reformats the input or today's date.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the input date and formats are valid.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if an invalid date or format specification is given.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-dates.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
See also \fIdate(1)\fR for more information about the format options.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
.sp


