.\"        Title: find-tool
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 01/06/2013
.\"
.TH "FIND-TOOL" "1" "01/06/2013" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBfind-tool\fR - Find a tool executable. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfind-tool\fR [\fB-h\fR | \fB--help\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR] \fB--dir\fR=\fIdir1\fR ... \fItool_name\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The find-tool(1) command searches for a tool and if found, it prints the path and returns 0. It first tries \fIwhich <tool name>\fR, and if that doesn't succeed, it then searches optional, user-specified directories and then standard system locations. If it can't find the tool, it prints an error message to stderr and returns 1.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB-h\fR | \fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR
.RS 4
Print to stderr the directories that will be searched, if necessary.
.RE
.PP
\fB--dir\fR=\fIdir1\fR ...
.RS 4
Look in these optional directories first, after trying \fBwhich\fR \fI<tool_name>\fR.
You can specify a list of colon-separated directories with one \fB--dir\fR option or multiple options with single directories.
.RE
.PP
\fItool_name\fR
.RS 4
Name of the tool, e.g., \fIcurl\fR.
.RE
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if it finds the tool.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if can't find the tool.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-find-tool.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
.sp
