.\"        Title: format-log-message
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "FORMAT-LOG-MESSAGE" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBformat-log-message\fR - Return a message to write to the log.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBformat-log-message\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fI"timestamp_string"\fR \fIlevel_string\fR \fIapp_name\fR \fImessage\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The format-log-message(1) command return a formatted message to write to the log, 
formatted using \fB$STAMPEDE_LOG_MESSAGE_FORMAT_STRING\fR defined in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/bin/env.sh\fR 
or overridden by the user.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fItimestamp_string\fR
.RS 4
The formatted timestamp. Since it's likely to contain spaces, you should usually quote this argument.
.RE
.PP
\fIlevel_string\fR
.RS 4
One of \fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR, \fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, 
\fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, or \fBDEBUG\fR, or a number between \fB0-7\fR, inclusive, 
which will be converted to the corresponding level.
.RE
.PP
\fIapp_name\fR
.RS 4
The name of the "application" doing the logging.
.RE
.PP
\fImessage\fR
.RS 4
The rest of the arguments are interpreted as the message to log.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the string was formatted successfully.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if an invalid \fB$STAMPEDE_LOG_MESSAGE_FORMAT_STRING\fR is defined 
in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/bin/env.sh\fR or overridden by the user.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-format-log-message.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
.sp
