.\"        Title: from-log-level
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "FROM-LOG-LEVEL" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBfrom-log-level\fR - Convert a syslog-compatible level to the corresponding number.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfrom-log-level\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIname\fR [\fIdefault\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The from-log-level(1) command returns the number corresponding to the input log-level \fIname\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIname\fR
.RS 4
Must be one of the \fIsyslog(1)\fR-compatible names, \fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, 
\fBCRITICAL\fR, \fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, \fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBDEBUG\fR, 
where case is ignored. However, if you provide a number, it will be returned, 
as long as it is between \fB0 - 7\fR, inclusive.
.RE
.PP
\fIdefault\fR
.RS 4
Number to return if an invalid name (or number) is specified. It can be any number you want,
even one not in the range \fB0 - 7\fR. If a default is not specified, the invalid name will be logged as 
a \fBWARNING\fR and the number specified by \fB$STAMPEDE_LOG_DEFAULT_FROM_LOG_LEVEL_VALUE\fR
will be returned.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success; nonzero is never returned, but an error might be logged, as described above.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-from-log-level.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
