.\"        Title: hive-prop
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "HIVE-PROP" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBhive-prop\fR - Show the values for one or more Hive variables or properties.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBhive-prop\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The hive-prop(1) command returns the values for one or more Hive variables or properties.
It determines the property values by running the command "hive -e 'set -v;'".
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR
.RS 4
Echo the path to the Hive CLI (command-line interface) command invoked.
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-keys\fR
.RS 4
Print all matching keys in the \fIkey=value\fR pairs. Default: print the full \fIkey=value\fR strings.
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-values\fR
.RS 4
Print only the values for the matching keys. Note: this will be confusing when there are multiple matches!
.RE
.PP
\fB--all\fR
.RS 4
Show \fBall\fR variables and properties.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fIpig_options\fR
.RS 4
Several \fBpig\fR (grunt) shell options are allowed that might affect the properties. Specifically, the following options are allowed:
.PP
\fB-d\fR | \fB--define\fR \fIkey=value\fR
.PP
\fB--hiveconf\fR \fIproperty=value\fR
.PP
\fB--hivevar\fR \fIkey=value\fR
.RS 4
Define Hive variables or properties.
.RE
.PP
\fB-i\fR \fIinclude_file\fR
.RS 4
Execute the contents of \fIinclude_file\fR as \fBhive\fI commands.
.RE
.PP
You can also put an equal sign \fB=\fR between any of these options and their values, even though \fBhive\fR itself doesn't allow this. See \fBhive -h\fR for details on these options. Use of any other \fBhive\fR shell option is an error.
.RE
.PP
\fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR
.RS 4
A regular expression matching all or part of the key. You can specify one or more regular expressions and strings.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fIstring\fR
.RS 4
One or more strings that must exactly match keys. You can specify one or more regular expressions and strings.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if no errors occur, as described next. If no matches are found, nothing is returned.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if the \fIhive\fR command is not found, \fB--all\fR or no strings or regular expressions are specified, etc.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/hadoop/test-hive-prop.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
