.\"        Title: mapreduce-prop
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "mapreduce-PROP" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBmapreduce-prop\fR - Show the values for one or more Hadoop MapReduce properties.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBmapreduce-prop\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The mapreduce-prop(1) command returns the values for one or more Hadoop MapReduce properties, 
as they exist inside a Java MapReduce program. It runs a simple MapReduce "job" using the \fIhadoop\fR
command to determine the property values.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
\fBNOTE:\fR each of the first set of options, labeled \fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR, must 
appear before the rest of the options, because of the way they are processed by the
Hadoop API that is used. These options may or may not affect the values of the properties you want to see.
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB-conf\fR \fIconfiguration_file\fR
.RS 4
 An application configuration file. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-D\fR \fIproperty=value\fR
.RS 4
Define the specified \fIproperty\fR with \fIvalue\fR. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-fs\fR \fBlocal\fR | \fInamenode:port\fR
.RS 4
Specify a namenode. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-jt\fR \fBlocal\fR | \fIjobtracker:port\fR
.RS 4
Specify a job tracker. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-files\fR \fIfile1[,file2,...]\fR
.RS 4
Specify a comma-separated list of files to be copied to the MapReduce cluster. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-libjars\fR \fIjar1[,jar2,...]\fR
.RS 4
Specify a comma-separated list of jar files to include in the classpath. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-archives\fR \fIarchive1[,archive2,...]\fR
.RS 4
Specify a comma-separated list of archives to unarchive on each node in the cluster. (\fBGeneric Hadoop option\fR)
.RE
.PP
\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR
.RS 4
Currently does nothing. (Exists for consistency with other tools.)
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-keys\fR
.RS 4
Print all matching keys in the \fIkey=value\fR pairs. Default: print the full \fIkey=value\fR strings.
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-values\fR
.RS 4
Print only the values for the matching keys. Note: this will be confusing when there are multiple matches!
.RE
.PP
\fB--all\fR
.RS 4
Show \fBall\fR variables and properties.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR
.RS 4
A regular expression matching the \fBwhole\fR key. Constrast with \fIhive-prop(1)\fR 
and \fIpig-prop(1)\fR, where the specified regular expression string is \fBnot\fR required to match 
the \fBwhole\fR key. The behavior in \fImapreduce-prop(1)\fR reflects the behavior of 
Java's regular expression API, which \fImapreduce-prop(1)\fR uses.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fIstring\fR
.RS 4
One or more strings that must exactly match keys.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if no errors occur, as described next. If no matches are found, nothing is returned.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if the \fIhadoop\fR driver command is not found, \fB--all\fR or no regular expressions are specified, etc.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/hadoop/test-mapreduce-prop.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
