.\"        Title: pig-prop
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "PIG-PROP" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBpig-prop\fR - Show the values for one or more Pig variables or properties.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpig-prop\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The pig-prop(1) command returns the values for one or more Pig variables or properties.
It determines the property values by running a Pig script with a special UDF. However, note that the limitations of Pig and the hacks required to make this work mean this tool may be fragile. Also, because it runs Pig, it is slow.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB-v\fR | \fB--verbose\fR
.RS 4
Echo the path to the \fBpig\fR CLI (command-line interface) command invoked.
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-keys\fR
.RS 4
Print all matching keys in the \fIkey=value\fR pairs. Default: print the full \fIkey=value\fR strings.
.RE
.PP
\fB--print-values\fR
.RS 4
Print only the values for the matching keys. Note: this will be confusing when there are multiple matches!
.RE
.PP
\fIpig_options\fR
.RS 4
Several \fBpig\fR (grunt) shell options are allowed that might affect the properties. Specifically, the following options are allowed:
.PP
\fB-4\fR | \fB-log4jconf\fR \fIlog4j_conf_file\fR
.RS 4
Log4J configuration file.
.RE
.PP
\fB-g\fR | \fB-embedded\fR \fIscript_engine_classname\fR
.RS 4
Class name of the scripting engine interpreter (e.g., for Jython).
.RE
.PP
\fB-m\fR | \fB-paramfile\fR \fIparam_file\fR
.RS 4
A file with parameter/property definitions.
.RE
.PP
\fB-p\fR | \fB-param\fR \fIkey=value\fR
.RS 4
A parameter/property definition.
.RE
.PP
\fB-P\fR | \fB-propertyfile\fR \fIproperty_file\fR
.RS 4
A file with property definitions.
.RE
.PP
\fB-x\fR | \fB-exectype\fR \fIlocal\fR|\fImapreduce\fR
.RS 4
Run in local or mapreduce mode.
.RE
.PP
You can also put an equal sign \fB=\fR between any of these options and their values, even though \fBpig\fR itself doesn't allow this. See \fBpig -h\fR for details on these options. Use of any other \fBpig\fR shell option is an error.
.RE
.PP
\fB--all\fR
.RS 4
Show \fBall\fR variables and properties.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR
.RS 4
A regular expression matching all or part of the key. You can specify one or more regular expressions and strings.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.RE
.PP
\fIstring\fR
.RS 4
One or more strings that must exactly match keys. You can specify one or more regular expressions and strings.
Either \fB--all\fR or at least one \fB--regex\fR=\fIre\fR and/or \fIstring\fR is required.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if no errors occur, as described next. If no matches are found, nothing is returned.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if a \fIpig.properties\fR file is not found, \fB--all\fR or no strings or regular expressions are specified, etc.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/hadoop/test-pig-prop.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
