.\"        Title: send-email
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "SEND-EMAIL" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBsend-email\fR - Send an email message, typically to alert on errors. 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsend-email\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIseverity\fR \fIaddress\fR \fIsubject\fR < \fImessage_lines\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The send-email(1) command sends an email message, typically to alert on errors. 
It \fBrequires\fR *nix email to be configured on the server running Stampede.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIseverity\fR
.RS 4
One of the \fIsyslog(1)\fR compatible severity names is recommended: \fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR, 
\fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, \fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, or \fBDEBUG\fR. It will be used as part of the subject line.
.RE
.PP
\fIaddress\fR
.RS 4
The email address of the recipient.
.RE
.PP
\fIsubject\fR
.RS 4
The rest of the command-line arguments are interpreted as part of the subject (title) for the email message.
.RE
.PP
\fImessage_lines\fR
.RS 4
The command reads the body of the message, if any, from \fIstdin\fR.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if sending the email succeeds.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if sending the email fails, e.g., because \fImail(1)\fR is not configured on the server.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-send-email.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
