.\"        Title: split-string
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "SPLIT-STRING" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBsplit-string\fR - Split a string on a delimiter and return the substrings as an array or write the substrings to stdout.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsplit-string\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The split-string(1) command splits a string on a delimiter and either 
returns an array of the substrings or writes the substrings to \fIstdout\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fB-d\fR | \fB--delimiter\fR=\fIdelim\fR
.RS 4
Split on \fIdelim\fR (default: ' '). The "=" can be omitted.
.RE
.PP
\fB-o\fR | \fB--outdelimiter\fR=\fIodelim\fR
.RS 4
Output the substrings separated by \fIodelim\fR (default: ' ').
Use \fB--newline\fR if you want one per line.
The "=" can be omitted.
.RE
.PP
\fB-n\fR | \fB--newline\fR
.RS 4
Output the substrings one per line.
.RE
.PP
\fB-i\fR | \fB--index\fR
.RS 4
Used with \fB--newline\fR (and \fB--newline\fR  is required if \fB--index\fR is specified).
Prefix each output line with the array index, followed by the output delimiter,
as given by \fB--outdelimiter\fR, followed by the substring.
.RE
.PP
\fIstring\fR
.RS 4
Zero or more strings to split. Each will be processed separately.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success except when an invalid option combination is specified.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure only when you don't specify \fB--newline\fR when you specify \fB--index\fR. It's not an error to specify no strings to split!
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-split-string.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
