.\"        Title: stampede-log
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "STAMPEDE-LOG" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBstampede-log\fR - Write to the stampede log.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBstampede-log\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIseverity\fR \fImessage\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The stampede-log(1) command lets users write messages to the same log file (or \fIsyslog(1)\fR)
that Stampede uses.

Note that any \fIstdout\fR and \fIstderr\fR output written by your code
within a workflow is also captured and logged as \fBINFO\fR messages.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIseverity\fR
.RS 4
Either 0-7 or one of the following syslog-compatible strings (case ignored):
\fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR, 
\fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, \fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, or \fBDEBUG\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fImessage\fR
.RS 4
The rest of the arguments are treated as the message to log.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the log call succeeded.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if you don't specify any arguments or the log call fails.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-stampede-log.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
