.\"        Title: stampede
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "STAMPEDE" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBstampede\fR - Creates or invokes a "stampede"; a workflow process.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBENV_VAR_DEFS stampede\fR [\fB--help\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The stampede(1) command is the driver for all "stampedes" (workflows). 
It is also used to create new stampedes.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fBENV_VAR_DEFS\fR
.RS 4
One-time overrides of environment variables defined in \fB$STAMPEDE_HOME/bin/env.sh\fR.
For example, \fBYEAR=2011\fR (but see the following options).
.RE
.PP
\fB--year\fR=\fIYYYY\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIYYYY\fR (4 digits!) as the year. All time-related values
default to the time that the stampede starts. See additional notes below.
.RE
.PP
\fB--month\fR=\fIMM\fR | \fB--mon\fR=\fIMM\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIMM\fR (2 digits!) as the month.
.RE
.PP
\fB--day\fR=\fIDD\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIDD\fR (2 digits!) as the day.
.RE
.PP
\fB--hour\fR=\fIHH\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIHH\fR (2 digits!) as the hour.
.RE
.PP
\fB--minute\fR=\fIMM\fR | \fB--min\fR=\fIMM\fR
.RS 4
Use \fIMMv\fR (2 digits!) as the minute.
.RE
.PP
\fB--second\fR=\fISS\fR | \fB--sec\fR=\fISS\fR
.RS 4
Use \fISS\fR (2 digits!) as the second.
.RE
.PP
\fB--epoch\fR=\fIseconds\fR
.RS 4
Set \fBall\fR time fields to correspond to the specified \fIseconds\fR
since the Unix epoch. See the additional notes below.
.RE
.PP
\fB--force-rerun\fR
.RS 4
Force a rerun, ignoring make's usual dependency checking.
.RE
.PP
\fB--tries\fR=\fIN\fR
.RS 4
Make up to \fIN\fR attempts to succeed. 
Default: the value specified by the environment variable \fB$STAMPEDE_NUMBER_OF_TRIES\fR.
For no limit, specify \fB0\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fB--between-tries\fR=\fIN\fR
.RS 4
How much time to wait between attempts. If \fIN\fR ends with a
\fBh\fR, \fBm\fR, or \fBs\fR, then wait \fIN\fR hours, minutes, or seconds, respectively (defaults to seconds).
Default: the value specified by the environment variable \fB$STAMPEDE_DEFAULT_SLEEP_INTERVAL\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fB--log-level\fR=\fIN\fR | \fB--logging-level\fR=\fIN\fR
.RS 4
Log more verbose output (useful for debugging with \fB--noexec\fR).
\fIsyslog(1)\fR log levels are used, so \fBlarger N\fR results in
\fBless\fR verbose output. 
Default: the value specified by the environment variable \fB$STAMPEDE_LOG_LEVEL\fR, a
number from 7 to 0, inclusive, or the corresponding logging level name, one of 
\fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR, 
\fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, \fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, or \fBDEBUG\fR. 
.RE
.PP
\fB-n\fR | \fB--noexec\fR
.RS 4
Don't actually execute the commands in the script, 
just \fIecho\fR the commands that would be executed. Useful for debugging.
.RE
.PP
\fBcreate\fR
.RS 4
Create a new stampede workflow. This is usually the first step after installing Stampede.
You will be prompted for information, such as the target directory. The directory will be created, 
if necessary, and new \fBMakefile\fR and \fB.stampederc\fR files will be created in the directory,
which you can then edit to create your "stampede" (workflow) and configure the environment.
Note, if you also use the \fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR argument, it will use \fImakefile\fR to determine the 
project's directory and Makefile name, rather than ask you for them.
.RE
.PP
\fB-f\fR \fImakefile\fR |
\fB--file\fR=\fImakefile\fR |
\fB--makefile\fR=\fImakefile\fR
.RS 4
Use \fImakefile\fR, which defines the stampede to execute. Prefix with the
directory, if not the current directory. Default: tries \fBMakefile\fR, \fBmakefile\fR, \fBMkFile\fR, \fBmkfile\fR, and \fBmfile\fR in the current directory.
.RE
.PP
\fImake_options\fR
.RS 4
Options, to pass to \fImake(1)\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fItargets\fR
.RS 4
Targets for \fImake(1)\fR to build.
Default: the first target in the Makefile.
.RE
.PP
\fBNOTE\fR On the time-related arguments, their purpose is to override the default values
for time values that are used to specify time-stamped resources. The default values
correspond to the current date and time. If you specify any of the time-related options,
\fBwith the exception\fR of \fB--epoch\fR=\fIseconds\fR, it only affects the corresponding field.
All other time-related fields that aren't specified will retain their default values.
However, \fB--epoch\fR=\fIseconds\fR changes \fBall\fR time fields to the time corresponding
to the specified epoch seconds date and time. In principle, you can mix
\fB--epoch\fR=\fIseconds\fR with other time arguments; the latter will still override the 
corresponding equivalent field values from the epoch seconds, but this could be
very confusing.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the options are valid, the make file specified exists (when running a stampede), or
the new project can be created (when using \fBcreate\fR), etc.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if any of the success cases fail.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-stampede.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.

