.\"        Title: success-or-failure
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "SUCCESS-OR-FAILURE" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBsuccess-or-failure\fR - Helper function used to generate either/or texts.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBsuccess-or-failure\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIN\fR \fItrue_string\fR \fIfalse_string\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The success-or-failure(1) command looks at the first argument \fIN\fR, a number,
and if the value is \fB0\fR, \fItrue_string\fR is echoed. Otherwise, 
\fIfalse_string\fR is echoed.

Consider this example:

    do_something
    info 'succeeded?  $(success-or-failure $? "yes" "no")'

The string "yes" is returned if $? is 0 (the status result of "do_something"),
otherwise "no".  Remember to quote arguments when they are empty or they contain whitespace.
Contrast with \fItrue-or-false(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR
.RS 4
An integer, where 0 means success and nonzero means failure.
.RE
.PP
\fItrue_string\fR
.RS 4
What to echo on success.
Note that \fItrue_string\fR must be quoted if it's empty or it contains whitespace.
.RE
.PP
\fIfalse_string\fR
.RS 4
What to echo on failure.
Note that \fIfalse_string\fR must be quoted if it contains whitespace. 
If the argument is missing, an empty string is used.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
It always succeeds.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-success-or-failure.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
