.\"        Title: to-log-level
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TO-LOG-LEVEL" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBto-log-level\fR - Convert a syslog-compatible level number to the corresponding name.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBto-log-level\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIN\fR [\fIdefault\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The to-log-level(1) command returns the name corresponding to the input log-level \fIN\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR
.RS 4
A number between \fB0 - 7\fR, inclusive, the valid \fIsyslog(1)\fR levels.
However, if you provide a name, it will be returned, as long as it is 
one of corresponding names: \fBEMERGENCY\fR, \fBALERT\fR, \fBCRITICAL\fR, 
\fBERROR\fR, \fBWARNING\fR, \fBNOTICE\fR, \fBINFO\fR, \fBDEBUG\fR, 
where case is ignored. 
.RE
.PP
\fIdefault\fR
.RS 4
String to return if an invalid number (or name) is specified. 
It can be any string you want, even one not in the set of valid \fIsyslog(1)\fR
levels. If a default is not specified, the invalid number will be logged as a
\fBWARNING\fR and the name specified by \fB$STAMPEDE_LOG_DEFAULT_TO_LOG_LEVEL_VALUE\fR
will be returned.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success; nonzero is never returned, but an error might be logged, as described above.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-to-log-level.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
