.\"        Title: to-seconds
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TO-SECONDS" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBto-seconds\fR - Compute the seconds for the input time period.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBto-seconds\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIN\fR | \fINs\fR | \fINm\fR | \fINh\fR 
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The to-seconds(1) command returns the number of seconds for the input time period, 
which can be hours, minutes, or seconds.

Days, months, and years aren't supported, because then you would have 
to specify a date to know the context to account for potential daylight savings time changes,
leap years, etc. 
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR | \fIN\fR\fBs\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR seconds. The value is simply echoed back.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR\fBm\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR minutes. The value \fIN\fR*\fB60\fR is echoed.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR\fBh\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR hours. The value \fIN\fR*\fB60\fR*\fB60\fR (\fIN\fR*\fB3600\fR) is echoed.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success as long as a valid time value is specified.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if an invalid time value is specified.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIto-time-interval(1)\fR. See \fIdates(1)\fR for more general handling.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-to-seconds.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
