.\"        Title: to-time-interval
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TO-TIME-INTERVAL" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBto-time-interval\fR - Compute the a time-interval string specified by the argument.

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBto-time-interval\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIN\fR | \fINs\fR | \fINm\fR | \fINh\fR 
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The to-time-interval(1) command returns the a human-readable string corresponding to 
the input time period, which can be hours, minutes, or seconds.

Days, months, and years aren't supported, because then you would have 
to specify a date to know the context to account for potential daylight savings time changes,
leap years, etc. 
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR | \fIN\fR\fBs\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR seconds. The value is \fIN\fR \fBseconds\fR is echoed.
However, if \fIN\fR = \fB1\fR, then \fB1 second\fR is echoed.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR\fBm\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR minutes. The value \fIN\fR \fBminutes\fR is echoed.
However, if \fIN\fR = \fB1\fR, then \fB1 minute\fR is echoed.
.RE
.PP
\fIN\fR\fBh\fR
.RS 4
The time argument, \fIN\fR hours. The value \fIN\fR \fBhours\fR is echoed.
However, if \fIN\fR = \fB1\fR, then \fB1 hour\fR is echoed.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success as long as a valid time value is specified.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if an invalid time value is specified.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIto-seconds(1)\fR. See \fIdates(1)\fR for more general handling.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-to-time-interval.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
