.\"        Title: true-or-false
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TRUE-OR-FALSE" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBtrue-or-false\fR - Helper function used to generate either/or texts.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtrue-or-false\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIvalue\fR \fItrue_string\fR \fIfalse_string\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The true-or-false(1) command looks at the first argument \fIvalue\fR, a string,
and if it is empty, \fItrue_string\fR is echoed. Otherwise, 
\fIfalse_string\fR is echoed.

Consider this example:

    info "X is on?  $(true_or_false "$x_flag" "on" "off")"

It logs "on" if $x_flag is not empty, otherwise "off". Remember to quote arguments
when they are empty or they contain whitespace.
Contrast with \fIsuccess-or-failure(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIvalue\fR
.RS 4
A string, where "" means false and any other string means true. 
Note that \fIvalue\fR must be quoted if it's empty or it contains whitespace.
.RE
.PP
\fItrue_string\fR
.RS 4
What to echo on success.
Note that \fItrue_string\fR must be quoted if it's empty or it contains whitespace.
.RE
.PP
\fIfalse_string\fR
.RS 4
What to echo on failure.
Note that \fIfalse_string\fR must be quoted if it contains whitespace. 
If the argument is missing, an empty string is used.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
It always succeeds.
.RE
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-true-or-false.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
