.\"        Title: try-for
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TRY-FOR" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBtry-for\fR - Keep trying an expression until it succeeds or a time window expires.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtry-for\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fItime_duration\fR \fItime_between_attempts\fR \fIexpression\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The try-for(1) command keeps trying an expression until it succeeds,
sleeping between attempts for a time delta, and finally stopping with a 
failure after unsuccessfully trying when a time window expires.

If you don't want the output of the expression, redirect it to \fB/dev/null\fR.

Contrast with \fItry-until(1)\fR, where you specify a timestamp at which point it stops trying. 
Here you specify a window of time.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fItime_duration\fR
.RS 4
How much time to keep trying the expression before giving up. 
After this point in time, a failure status of 1 is returned. 
The allowed format is \fINs\fR, \fINm\fR, and \fINh\fR,
for \fIN\fR seconds, minutes, and hours, respectively. If the letter
suffix is omitted, it defaults to seconds. 
.RE
.PP
\fItime_between_attempts\fR
.RS 4
How long to wait between attempts. The format is the same as for \fItime_duration\fR.
.RE
.PP
\fIexpression\fR
.RS 4
The remaining arguments compose the bash expression to try on each
iteration. It must return a status of 0 when evaluated
to indicate success or nonzero to indicate failure. 
For example, \fBls foo\fR returns 0 if \fBfoo\fR exists. Otherwise it returns 1.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the \fIexpression\fR succeeds within the specified time window.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if invalid arguments are specified or the \fIexpression\fR never succeeds within
the time window.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fItry-until(1)\fR, where you specify a timestamp at which point it stops trying. 
Here you specify a window of time.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-try-for.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
