.\"        Title: try-until
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "TRY-UNTIL" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBtry-until\fR - Keep trying an expression until it succeeds or a timestamp is reached.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBtry-until\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIend_timestamp\fR \fItime_between_attempts\fR \fIexpression\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The try-until(1) command keeps trying an expression until it succeeds,
sleeping between attempts for a time delta, and finally stopping with a 
failure after unsuccessfully trying when a timestamp is reached.

If you don't want the output of the expression, redirect it to \fB/dev/null\fR.

Contrast with \fItry-for(1)\fR, where you specify a window of time to try. 
Here, you specify a cutoff time.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIend_timestamp\fR
.RS 4
The timestamp, in Unix epoch seconds, when it should give up trying.
After this point in time, it returns the failure status of 1.
.RE
.PP
\fItime_between_attempts\fR
.RS 4
How long to wait between attempts.
The allowed format is \fINs\fR, \fINm\fR, and \fINh\fR,
for \fIN\fR seconds, minutes, and hours, respectively. If the letter
suffix is omitted, it defaults to seconds. 
.RE
.PP
\fIexpression\fR
.RS 4
The remaining arguments compose the bash expression to try on each
iteration. It must return a status of 0 when evaluated
to indicate success or nonzero to indicate failure. 
For example, \fBls foo\fR returns 0 if \fBfoo\fR exists. Otherwise it returns 1.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success if the \fIexpression\fR succeeds within the specified timestamp.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if invalid arguments are specified or the \fIexpression\fR never succeeds before
the timestamp is reached.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fItry-for(1)\fR, where you specify a window of time to try. Here, you specify a cutoff time.
\fIdates(1)\fR can be used to generate an epoch timestamp from other time formats.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-try-until.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
