.\"        Title: waiting
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "WAITING" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBwaiting\fR - Sleep for a specified period of time.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBwaiting\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fItries_so_far\fR \fIsleep_interval\fR [\fItext\fR]
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The waiting(1) command occasionally logs a message that it's waiting,
sleeps for a time interval and then returns. It's designed to be used in
a loop that's waiting for something to happen, and it wants to sleep
while waiting. 

If you don't want any logging, just use \fIsleep(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fItries_so_far\fR
.RS 4
The number of times that \fIwaiting(1)\fR has been called. It is used in the
occasionally log messages that are written (roughly every fifth iteration after
the first few). Normally, a waiting loop would maintain a counter of the passes
through the loop and pass the value into this script on each invocation.
.RE
.PP
\fIsleep_interval\fR
.RS 4
How long to sleep.
The allowed format is \fINs\fR, \fINm\fR, and \fINh\fR,
for \fIN\fR seconds, minutes, and hours, respectively. If the letter
suffix is omitted, it defaults to seconds. 
.RE
.PP
\fItext\fR
.RS 4
The remaining arguments are optional text that's added to the log messages.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success unless sleep is interrupted with a control command (e.g., ^C).
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if sleep is interrupted with a control command (e.g., ^C).
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fItry-for(1)\fR, where you specify a command to try repeatedly and a window of time to keep trying it.
\fItry-until(1)\fR, where you specify a command to try repeatedly and a timetamp for when to stop trying it.
If you don't want any logging, just use \fIsleep(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-waiting.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
