.\"        Title: yesterday-ymd
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "YESTERDAY-YMD" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fByesterday-ymd\fR - Return a \fBYYYYMMDD\fR string for \fByesterday's\fR date.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByesterday-ymd\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIdelimiter\fR \fB--as-args\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The yesterday-ymd(1) command returns a \fBYYYYMMDD\fR string for \fByesterday's\fR date, 
where it uses the Stampede environment variables \fBYEAR\fR, \fBMONTH\fR, and \fBDAY\fR to 
define \fBtoday's\fR date. It then computes the corresponding values for the day before,
taking into account year boundaries, leap years, etc.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIdelimiter\fR
.RS 4
A string to insert between the \fBYYYY\fR, \fBMM\fR, and \fBDD\fR fields (default: "").
.RE
.PP
\fB--as-args\fR
.RS 4
Format the output as \fB--year=YYYY --month=MM --day=DD\fR,
which can be used in the invocation flags for \fIstampede(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Success as long as the \fIdate(1)\fR command succeeds.
.RE
.PP
\fB1\fR
.RS 4
Failure if the \fIdate(1)\fR command fails.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIymd(1)\fR, which behaves the same, except for today's date.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-yesterday-ymd.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
