.\"        Title: ymd
.\"       Author: Dean Wampler
.\"         Date: 12/22/2012
.\"
.TH "YMD" "1" "12/22/2012" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
\fBymd\fR - Return a \fBYYYYMMDD\fR string for \fBtoday's\fR date.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBymd\fR [\fB--help\fR] \fIdelimiter\fR \fB--as-args\fR
.sp
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The ymd(1) command returns a \fBYYYYMMDD\fR string for \fBtoday's\fR date, 
where it uses the Stampede environment variables \fBYEAR\fR, \fBMONTH\fR, and \fBDAY\fR to 
define today.
.sp
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
\fB--help\fR
.RS 4
Show this help message.
.RE
.PP
\fIdelimiter\fR
.RS 4
A string to insert between the \fBYYYY\fR, \fBMM\fR, and \fBDD\fR fields (default: "").
.RE
.PP
\fB--as-args\fR
.RS 4
Format the output as \fB--year=YYYY --month=MM --day=DD\fR,
which can be used in the invocation flags for \fIstampede(1)\fR.
.sp
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.PP
\fB0\fR
.RS 4
Always succeeds, as it doesn't need to call the \fIdate(1)\fR command.
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Dean Wampler, <dean.wampler@thinkbiganalytics.com>.
.sp
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIyesterday-ymd(1)\fR, which behaves the same, except for yesterday's date.
.sp
.SH "RESOURCES"
.sp
See also the tests of this script in \fI$STAMPEDE_HOME/test/test-ymd.sh\fR for examples.
.sp
Main web site: https://github.com/ThinkBigAnalytics/stampede.
.sp
.SH "COPYING"
Copyright (c) 2011\-2013, Think Big Analytics, Inc. Free use of this software is 
granted under the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.
